hello I am dr. Tom Crawford at the
University of Oxford and this is the
Millennium problems in 90 seconds the
seven biggest unsolved problems in maths
each worth are called 1 million dollars
announced in the year 2000 by the Clay
Institute formulated by Riemann in 1859
the Riemann hypothesis asks whether the
secrets of the pattern of the prime
numbers is hidden in the zeros of the
zeta function if the solution to a
problem can be quickly checked by a
computer then can the computer also
quickly find that solution this is the
problem of P versus NP the navier-stokes
equations model the motion of every
fluid on earth but mathematically we
don't know if they define a well posed
problem yang-mills and the mass cap
hypothesis asks whether we can construct
a rigorous mathematical theory that
agrees with what the physicists see in
their quantum experiments the Hodge
conjecture asked whether the solution
set to a system of algebraic equations
can be built from simpler objects the
virtuous winners in dire conjecture is
there an easy way to determine if a set
of elliptic equations has a finite or
infinite number of rational solutions
and finally the one that's been solved
the Poincare conjecture tells us that
any smooth finite shape with no holes in
any dimension must look like a sphere
thanks Gregory if you've enjoyed this
video please do remember to subscribe
for more mass fun
you